# [Longest Increasing Subsequence](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-increasing-subsequence/description/)

## Approach #4 Dynamic Programming with Binary Search[Accepted]:
**Algorithm**

In this approach, we scan the array from left to right. We also make use of a `dp` array initialized with all 0's. This `dp` array is meant to store the increasing subsequence formed by including the currently encountered element. While traversing the `nums` array, we keep on filling the `dp` array with the elements encountered so far. For the element corresponding to the $j^{th}$ index (`nums[j]`), we determine its correct position in the `dp` array(say $i^{th}$ index) by making use of Binary Search(which can be used since the `dp` array is storing increasing subsequence) and also insert it at the correct position. An important point to be noted is that for Binary Search, we consider only that portion of the `dp` array in which we have made the updates by inserting some elements at their correct positions(**which remains always sorted**). Thus, only the elements upto the $i^{th}$ index in the `dp` array can determine the position of the current element in it. Since, the element enters its correct position(`i`) in an ascending order in the `dp` array, the subsequence formed so far in it is surely an increasing subsequence. Whenever this position index `i` becomes equal to the length of the LIS formed so far(`len`), it means, we need to update the `len` as $len=len+1$.

Consider the example:

input: [0, 8, 4, 12, 2]

dp: [0]

dp: [0, 8]

dp: [0, 4]

dp: [0, 4, 12]

dp: [0 , 2, 12] which is not the longest increasing subsequence, but length of dpdpdp array results in length of Longest Increasing Subsequence.

```java
public class Solution {
    public int lengthOfLIS(int[] nums) {
        int[] dp = new int[nums.length];
        int len = 0;
        for (int num : nums) {
            int i = Arrays.binarySearch(dp, 0, len, num);
            if (i < 0) {
                i = -(i + 1);
            }
            dp[i] = num;
            if (i == len) {
                len++;
            }
        }
        return len;
    }
}
```
```go
func lengthOfLIS(nums []int) int {
	is := make([]int, 0, len(nums))
	for _, num := range nums {
		left, right := 0, len(is)-1
		for left <= right {
			mid := (left + right) / 2
			if num <= is[mid] {
				right = mid - 1
			} else {
				left = mid + 1
			}
		}
		if left >= len(is) {
			is = append(is, num)
		} else {
			is[left] = num
		}
	}
	return len(is)
}
```
**Note**: Arrays.binarySearch() method returns index of the search key, if it is contained in the array, else it returns (-(insertion point) - 1). The insertion point is the point at which the key would be inserted into the array: the index of the first element greater than the key, or a.length if all elements in the array are less than the specified key.

**Complexity Analysis**
- Time complexity : $O(nlog(n))$. Binary search takes $log(n)$ time and it is called $n$ times.
- Space complexity : $O(n)$. $dp$ array of size $n$ is used.
